The magical trick with reading minds. So you need to order a crystal ball, headscarf, some gemstones, and we sit you in a dark room for half an hour and we teach you how to read minds. No, you don't need to do that.

We literally just need to ask questions. So the way to read people's minds is to get them to speak to you. People love talking about themselves and it's their favorite thing to do.

And people like being questioned. It makes you feel listened. It makes you feel safe.

It makes you feel heard. And it makes you trust the other person to the level that you could be a total stranger and be meeting this lead for the first time. But if you really, truly make the effort to learn, understand and listen to what they're saying, and you acknowledge that you've listened and absorbed the information, you are going to gain such a massive trust from that client from the off.

One of the things that people get wrong in sales is feeling frightened to ask questions. I get it. I've been there.

I've been at the point where I might have been on a sales consultation and somebody's made me feel like I need to know the answers. I need to know what they're looking for. We aren't mind readers.

It's not possible to jump on a call and be like, oh, this is what you need. That is what a pushy salesperson does, where it's features and benefits. And I have one product, one solution.

Everybody needs the solution. It's not right. It doesn't work.

It's not the way that it should go. So when we're doing mind reading, what we need to be asking them is, let me make sure that I've understood that. Can you come back to me with this? Okay.

So if that was the outcome and we could help you achieve this, how would that make you feel? It's all of these questions so that you can understand what that person's really looking for. It gives them the opportunity to correct you if you're going down the wrong path. And it gives you the opportunity to ask the questions to get to the emotional pain points that we can then go and sell to.

So something like this, I'm going to use an example for sales. So let's say a business is really, really struggling to get leads in and actually convert them into paying clients. One of the questions we're going to ask them is, so what is it that you think we can help you with? They're probably going to come out and say, well, I'd really like better leads and more conversions.

And what's that going to help you achieve? Oh, well, it means I'm going to have more money in the business. Okay, perfect. So is that causing a little bit of a problem at the minute? Is there anything that we can help them increase? Well, it means I'm going to have more money in the business, therefore more marketing spend, and I can get more leads through and I can scale, get more employees and open my second location.

Great. So we've got some answers from that. Or what we might find is that actually, it's much more of an emotional answer.

It could be the fact that they're drowning in administration. It might be that they are trying to stay on top of processes so much that everything's manual and they are stressed and they're going home and their wife's screaming at them or their husband's screaming at them because they're never there at home because they're so busy with business. That's when we can go, ah, so we need to help with automation.

We need to help with streamlining stuff. We need to help with close rates. And that's where we find how to target emotionally the right solution.

So I recently helped a client who has a care home business and his problem was getting to the root cause of people's wants and desires for the product. Exactly the same thing. He was trying to read their mind by saying, don't worry, we use really, really nice towels and we've got all these beautiful products that we use and keep their room really, really clean and lovely.

We feed them three square meals a day, but it just wasn't working. What we were finding was the biggest gap was the question asking at the beginning was the mind reading. So what he was failing to do was to say, right, and what is it that you're looking for for your parents? That opens up an absolute world of opportunity.

What he was doing was skipping that totally and going straight for the, oh, well, what we do here is yada, yada, yada, yada, yada. Everybody's wants and desires are different. Some people in that scenario, their want and desire would have been, I really want to make sure that they're being fed grade A food and vegetables and vitamins and minerals and that they have time to eat because the last place they were losing weight or something like this.

Or it might be the fact that I just want the staff to know their name and make sure that they're coming to see them because it might be a dementia patient. Everything is so different for every single individual. Sales processes need to be tailored.

And this is why we do the prescription sales because mind reading is what pushy sales people try to do, where they decide that they know your pains and wants and needs better than you do. And I'm going to tell you when you get to buy my products, it's going to fix your life. So what we did with that client was we opened up the floor to tell me what's happened in the past or what are you looking for? How's your experience been? And what could we do to make sure that this is the perfect fit for you? That way, what he was allowed to do was take note of everything that the individuals were saying with their pain points, what they needed, what they really truly wanted for their loved ones.

And then he could address each of those points as he went through the consultation to make sure that the person felt heard, felt like he was totally in their brain and totally saw through their eyes and stood in their shoes. And his conversion rate just went through the roof. So the final element to understanding your needs is to make sure they understand that you understand.

Now, I call this the 30-70 rule. 30% of the time, you should be talking. 70% of the time, you should be listening.

Now, this allows a customer to be able to feel, like I say, fully heard, fully listened and fully understood. You should not be drifting off and checking your phone and looking at different places when a client is telling you their wants and needs and desires. You should be listening, jotting down and being totally present.

And we'll cover that in the next module here. But what I want you to remember is not to be frightened to sit and listen. Sometimes we feel like we have to fill the gap and we have to give them as much information and tell them everything from top to tail.

I've done sales where I've discussed two elements of the package. When we have 10, the reason being is they're only actually, when you get down to it in the beginning of the conversation, interested in those two elements. If I start talking about the other eight, they're going to get bored and are not interested anymore and disappear.

They're wanting to solve their solutions and their personal pain points rather than something that's been built for lots of different people. And this is the same for any industry. So this could be, again, in the fitness industry, it might be in luxury items, home remodeling business, anything like that.

You need to understand your customer's pain points and address them. But to do that, you have to listen. So the reason that we do this so early on in the consultation period is so that we can forge a bond.

Now, if we don't do this, we are going to get judged by whoever we're speaking to in the fact that we might be a salesperson the dreaded salesperson. So they'll start to retract. They'll start to not feel quite as comfortable with us anymore.

And they do start to pull away. So we need to make sure that they feel safe to come toward us, to speak to us and to be able to make that connection. So we do this early on, forge that bond, forge that trust and make sure they are so comfortable and aware that we understand their situation and can be trusted to recommend the best solution.

So now that we're at the end of that module, you should have a great understanding of how to create a profile for your demographic, for your customer and your audience. What we can then do with that is use our strategy session to create a bang on interpretation of who you're going to be speaking to. So we can preempt, how do we predict things that we might want to come up against in the consultation to address and that we can make sure that we cover for all clients.

So I hope you enjoyed that module and I'm looking forward to helping you in the next.